README.md, before:

# MCP-CODEGEN

**Universal Code Mode for APIs, Services, and Tools**

![Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-active%20development-orange)
![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-1.1.0-blue)
![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache%202.0-green)

> **ACTIVE DEVELOPMENT**: This project is under active development. See commit history for latest updates.

---

## What is this?

**MCP-CODEGEN generates type-safe TypeScript wrappers that reduce API token usage by 98%.**

Instead of sending massive API specifications (150K+ tokens) in every prompt, generate tiny wrapper code (2K tokens) that LLM agents can import and use like regular functions. Works with MCP servers and REST APIs (v1), with GraphQL planned.

**The result:** Same functionality, 98% fewer tokens, full type safety.

Built on the Code Mode concept introduced by [Anthropic](https://www.anthropic.com/news/model-context-protocol) and [Cloudflare](https://blog.cloudflare.com/cloudflare-workers-code-mode), extended to work universally across multiple API types.

---

## Who should use this?

### Ideal for:
- **Building LLM agents** that need to call many tools or APIs
- **Already using** MCP servers or OpenAPI specs
- **Hitting token limits** or paying high costs to send specs repeatedly
- **Want type safety** for agent-API interactions
- **Need production features** like retries, auth, and monitoring

### Not ideal for:
- **Just want a REST SDK** for human developers → use [OpenAPI Generator](https://openapi-generator.tech/)
- **Don't control agent code** → need runtime protocol integration instead
- **Only need one or two API calls** → overhead not worth it
- **Building on Cloudflare Workers** → use [Cloudflare's Code Mode](https://blog.cloudflare.com/cloudflare-workers-code-mode)

---

## Quick Start

### 30-Second Demo

Want to see it working right now?

```bash
git clone https://github.com/tyranosurasmax/MCP-CODEGEN
cd MCP-CODEGEN/examples/universal-github
npm install
npx mcp-codegen sync
npm run demo
```

This demo:
- Calls GitHub REST API (1,100+ tools)
- Calls MCP filesystem server
- Shows universal `call()` interface
- Proves 99.94% token reduction

See [`examples/universal-github/README.md`](examples/universal-github/README.md) for details.

---

### Install and Use

**1. Install globally:**
```bash
npm install -g @mcp-codegen/cli
```

**2. Create config** (`codegen.config.json`):
```json
{
  "sources": {
    "mcp": {
      "filesystem": {
        "type": "mcp",
        "command": "npx",
        "args": ["-y", "@modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem", "/tmp"]
      }
    },
    "openapi": {
      "github": {
        "type": "openapi",
        "spec": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/github/rest-api-description/main/descriptions/api.github.com/api.github.com.json",
        "baseUrl": "https://api.github.com"
      }
    }
  },
  "outputDir": "./codegen",
  "runtimePackage": "@mcp-codegen/runtime"
}
```

**3. Generate wrappers:**
```bash
mcp-codegen sync
```

**4. Use in your code:**
```typescript
import { call } from "@mcp-codegen/runtime";

// MCP: Read local file
const data = await call("filesystem__read_file", {
  path: "/tmp/repos.json"
});

// REST: Fetch from GitHub
const repos = await call("github__repos_list_for_user", {
  path: { username: "anthropics" }
});

// Chain them together
await call("filesystem__write_file", {
  path: "/tmp/anthropic-repos.json",
  content: JSON.stringify(repos, null, 2)
});
```

**Result:** 98% token reduction. One runtime. Universal.

---

## Configuration

### Supported Sources

| Source Type | Status | Use Case |
|-------------|--------|----------|
| **MCP Servers** | Production | Claude Desktop tools, local services |
| **REST APIs** | Production | GitHub, Stripe, any OpenAPI spec |
| **GraphQL APIs** | Planned | GitHub GraphQL, Shopify, Hasura |
| **Databases** | Planned | Prisma-style introspection |

**v1 Scope:** MCP + OpenAPI REST. Both adapters are production-ready.

### Authentication

```json
{
  "sources": {
    "openapi": {
      "github": {
        "type": "openapi",
        "spec": "https://...",
        "baseUrl": "https://api.github.com",
        "auth": {
          "type": "bearer",
          "token": "${GITHUB_TOKEN}"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Supported auth types: `bearer`, `apikey`, `basic`, `oauth2`

Environment variables are resolved automatically (`${VAR_NAME}`).

---

## Features

- **Universal Source Support**: MCP servers + REST APIs in v1
- **98% Token Reduction**: Validated across multiple API types ([benchmarks](docs/benchmarks.md))
- **Type-Safe**: Full TypeScript support with IDE autocomplete
- **Production Ready**: Retries, auth, connection pooling, instrumentation
- **Platform Agnostic**: Runs anywhere Node.js runs
- **Open Source**: Apache 2.0 licensed, extensible architecture

---

## Documentation

- **[Architecture](./ARCHITECTURE.md)** - System design and adapter patterns
- **[Benchmarks](docs/benchmarks.md)** - Token reduction validation and performance metrics
- **[Comparisons](docs/comparisons.md)** - vs. Anthropic, Cloudflare, OpenAPI Generator, Prisma
- **[Agent Discovery](docs/agent-discovery.md)** - `.agent-ready.json` format specification
- **[Contributing](./CONTRIBUTING.md)** - Development setup and guidelines
- **[Examples](./examples/)** - Working examples and demos

---

## CLI Commands

```bash
# Discover and generate all wrappers
mcp-codegen sync

# Generate specific source
mcp-codegen generate <source-name>

# List discovered sources
mcp-codegen list

# Initialize new project
mcp-codegen quickstart
```

---

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for development setup and architecture guidelines.

---

## License

Apache 2.0 License - see [LICENSE](./LICENSE) for details.

This project includes patent protection under Apache 2.0.
See [NOTICE](./NOTICE) and [COPYRIGHT](./COPYRIGHT) for attribution requirements.

---

## Links

- **Repository:** https://github.com/tyranosurasmax/MCP-CODEGEN
- **Issues:** [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/tyranosurasmax/MCP-CODEGEN/issues)
- **Discussions:** [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/tyranosurasmax/MCP-CODEGEN/discussions)

---

## Acknowledgments

This project builds upon groundbreaking work by:

### Anthropic's MCP Code Mode
- Pioneered Model Context Protocol and Code Mode concept for MCP servers
- Proved that token reduction makes LLM-tool integration practical
- [Read the announcement](https://www.anthropic.com/news/model-context-protocol) | [MCP Specification](https://spec.modelcontextprotocol.io/)

### Cloudflare's Code Mode
- Pioneered Code Mode on Workers platform with V8 isolate security
- Proved that code generation can replace verbose tool definitions
- [Read the article](https://blog.cloudflare.com/cloudflare-workers-code-mode)

### Additional Inspiration
- **OpenAPI Generator** - REST API codegen patterns
- **Prisma** - Database abstraction excellence
- **The MCP Community** - Tool authors and early adopters

---

## Background & Motivation

This project explores a "Universal Code Mode" pattern—extending the Code Mode concept introduced by Anthropic for MCP servers to work across multiple API types (MCP, REST, and potentially GraphQL in future releases).

**What we're proposing:**
- A universal adapter pattern for multi-source API integration
- A shared `.agent-ready.json` format that others can adopt for agent tool discovery
- Production-grade infrastructure (error handling, retries, auth, instrumentation)
- Open source Apache 2.0 implementation for community collaboration

**Our goal:** Make Code Mode's token reduction benefits available across any API type, not just MCP servers, while keeping the implementation open and extensible.

The project started in November 2025 and continues to evolve based on community feedback and real-world usage.

---

**Built with the belief that AI agents deserve infrastructure as good as the APIs they call.**

Commit message:

Lock down runtime contract before feature expansion
RUNTIME_CONTRACT.md:
- Define stable API contract (call, callTyped, registerAdapter, getAdapter)
- Document error codes and HTTP/MCP error mapping
- Specify SourceAdapter interface requirements
- Define semver policy for contract changes
- Provide conformance testing guidelines

Conformance Tests:
- Add packages/runtime/tests/conformance.test.ts
- Validate core API behavior
- Test error contract compliance
- Verify SourceAdapter interface
- Example tests for generator authors

README Updates:
- Tone down "enterprise-grade" to "production-safe defaults"
- Remove GraphQL mention from opening pitch
- Soften Background & Motivation language
- Change "Production-grade infrastructure" to "Production-safe defaults"
- Add RUNTIME_CONTRACT.md to documentation links
- Keep GraphQL/DB in config table but don't emphasize

Philosophy:
- Freeze runtime API before expanding features
- Others can target @mcp-codegen/runtime as stable socket
- Wait for traction before claiming originality
- Focus on "sane defaults" not "enterprise infrastructure"

README.md, after:

# MCP-CODEGEN

**Universal Code Mode for APIs, Services, and Tools**

![Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-active%20development-orange)
![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-1.1.0-blue)
![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache%202.0-green)

> **ACTIVE DEVELOPMENT**: This project is under active development. See commit history for latest updates.

---

## What is this?

**MCP-CODEGEN generates type-safe TypeScript wrappers that reduce API token usage by 98%.**

Instead of sending massive API specifications (150K+ tokens) in every prompt, generate tiny wrapper code (2K tokens) that LLM agents can import and use like regular functions. Works with MCP servers and REST APIs.

**The result:** Same functionality, 98% fewer tokens, full type safety.

Built on the Code Mode concept introduced by [Anthropic](https://www.anthropic.com/news/model-context-protocol) and [Cloudflare](https://blog.cloudflare.com/cloudflare-workers-code-mode), extended to work universally across multiple API types.

---

## Who should use this?

### Ideal for:
- **Building LLM agents** that need to call many tools or APIs
- **Already using** MCP servers or OpenAPI specs
- **Hitting token limits** or paying high costs to send specs repeatedly
- **Want type safety** for agent-API interactions
- **Need production features** like retries, auth, and monitoring

### Not ideal for:
- **Just want a REST SDK** for human developers → use [OpenAPI Generator](https://openapi-generator.tech/)
- **Don't control agent code** → need runtime protocol integration instead
- **Only need one or two API calls** → overhead not worth it
- **Building on Cloudflare Workers** → use [Cloudflare's Code Mode](https://blog.cloudflare.com/cloudflare-workers-code-mode)

---

## Quick Start

### 30-Second Demo

Want to see it working right now?

```bash
git clone https://github.com/tyranosurasmax/MCP-CODEGEN
cd MCP-CODEGEN/examples/universal-github
npm install
npx mcp-codegen sync
npm run demo
```

This demo:
- Calls GitHub REST API (1,100+ tools)
- Calls MCP filesystem server
- Shows universal `call()` interface
- Proves 99.94% token reduction

See [`examples/universal-github/README.md`](examples/universal-github/README.md) for details.

---

### Install and Use

**1. Install globally:**
```bash
npm install -g @mcp-codegen/cli
```

**2. Create config** (`codegen.config.json`):
```json
{
  "sources": {
    "mcp": {
      "filesystem": {
        "type": "mcp",
        "command": "npx",
        "args": ["-y", "@modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem", "/tmp"]
      }
    },
    "openapi": {
      "github": {
        "type": "openapi",
        "spec": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/github/rest-api-description/main/descriptions/api.github.com/api.github.com.json",
        "baseUrl": "https://api.github.com"
      }
    }
  },
  "outputDir": "./codegen",
  "runtimePackage": "@mcp-codegen/runtime"
}
```

**3. Generate wrappers:**
```bash
mcp-codegen sync
```

**4. Use in your code:**
```typescript
import { call } from "@mcp-codegen/runtime";

// MCP: Read local file
const data = await call("filesystem__read_file", {
  path: "/tmp/repos.json"
});

// REST: Fetch from GitHub
const repos = await call("github__repos_list_for_user", {
  path: { username: "anthropics" }
});

// Chain them together
await call("filesystem__write_file", {
  path: "/tmp/anthropic-repos.json",
  content: JSON.stringify(repos, null, 2)
});
```

**Result:** 98% token reduction. One runtime. Universal.

---

## Configuration

### Supported Sources

| Source Type | Status | Use Case |
|-------------|--------|----------|
| **MCP Servers** | Production | Claude Desktop tools, local services |
| **REST APIs** | Production | GitHub, Stripe, any OpenAPI spec |
| **GraphQL APIs** | Planned | GitHub GraphQL, Shopify, Hasura |
| **Databases** | Planned | Prisma-style introspection |

**v1 Scope:** MCP + OpenAPI REST. Both adapters are production-ready.

### Authentication

```json
{
  "sources": {
    "openapi": {
      "github": {
        "type": "openapi",
        "spec": "https://...",
        "baseUrl": "https://api.github.com",
        "auth": {
          "type": "bearer",
          "token": "${GITHUB_TOKEN}"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Supported auth types: `bearer`, `apikey`, `basic`, `oauth2`

Environment variables are resolved automatically (`${VAR_NAME}`).

---

## Features

- **Universal Source Support**: MCP servers + REST APIs
- **98% Token Reduction**: Validated across multiple API types ([benchmarks](docs/benchmarks.md))
- **Type-Safe**: Full TypeScript support with IDE autocomplete
- **Production-Safe**: Sane defaults for retries, auth, and error handling
- **Platform Agnostic**: Runs anywhere Node.js runs
- **Open Source**: Apache 2.0 licensed, extensible architecture

---

## Documentation

- **[Runtime Contract](./RUNTIME_CONTRACT.md)** - Stable API specification (semver-sensitive)
- **[Architecture](./ARCHITECTURE.md)** - System design and adapter patterns
- **[Benchmarks](docs/benchmarks.md)** - Token reduction validation and performance metrics
- **[Comparisons](docs/comparisons.md)** - vs. Anthropic, Cloudflare, OpenAPI Generator, Prisma
- **[Agent Discovery](docs/agent-discovery.md)** - `.agent-ready.json` format specification
- **[Contributing](./CONTRIBUTING.md)** - Development setup and guidelines
- **[Examples](./examples/)** - Working examples and demos

---

## CLI Commands

```bash
# Discover and generate all wrappers
mcp-codegen sync

# Generate specific source
mcp-codegen generate <source-name>

# List discovered sources
mcp-codegen list

# Initialize new project
mcp-codegen quickstart
```

---

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for development setup and architecture guidelines.

---

## License

Apache 2.0 License - see [LICENSE](./LICENSE) for details.

This project includes patent protection under Apache 2.0.
See [NOTICE](./NOTICE) and [COPYRIGHT](./COPYRIGHT) for attribution requirements.

---

## Links

- **Repository:** https://github.com/tyranosurasmax/MCP-CODEGEN
- **Issues:** [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/tyranosurasmax/MCP-CODEGEN/issues)
- **Discussions:** [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/tyranosurasmax/MCP-CODEGEN/discussions)

---

## Acknowledgments

This project builds upon groundbreaking work by:

### Anthropic's MCP Code Mode
- Pioneered Model Context Protocol and Code Mode concept for MCP servers
- Proved that token reduction makes LLM-tool integration practical
- [Read the announcement](https://www.anthropic.com/news/model-context-protocol) | [MCP Specification](https://spec.modelcontextprotocol.io/)

### Cloudflare's Code Mode
- Pioneered Code Mode on Workers platform with V8 isolate security
- Proved that code generation can replace verbose tool definitions
- [Read the article](https://blog.cloudflare.com/cloudflare-workers-code-mode)

### Additional Inspiration
- **OpenAPI Generator** - REST API codegen patterns
- **Prisma** - Database abstraction excellence
- **The MCP Community** - Tool authors and early adopters

---

## Background & Motivation

This project explores a "Universal Code Mode" pattern—extending the Code Mode concept introduced by Anthropic for MCP servers to work across multiple API types.

**What we're proposing:**
- A universal adapter pattern for multi-source API integration
- A shared `.agent-ready.json` format that others could adopt for agent tool discovery
- Production-safe defaults (error handling, retries, auth)
- Open source Apache 2.0 implementation for community collaboration

**Our goal:** Make Code Mode's token reduction benefits available across multiple API types, while keeping the implementation open and extensible.

Started November 2025, evolving based on community feedback and real-world usage.

---

**Built with the belief that AI agents deserve infrastructure as good as the APIs they call.**
